---
layout: post
title: Autonomous Rover
description:  Developed an autonomous rover using ROS2 and Raspberry Pi, implementing closed-loop PI control for navigation.
skills: 
- ROS2
- Raspberry Pi
- Arduino
- Python
main-image: /rover(1).jpeg 
---

---
# Autonomous Rover
The rover works by having the Raspberry Pi acting as the brain of the robot, taking in feedback from the LiDAR, IMU measurements, and wheel encoders to tell the Arduino where to move to. 

## Robot Architecture Flowchart
{% include image-gallery.html images="architecture.png" %}  

The flowchart details how everything is connected together. Starting from the top, the LiDAR sends data via a ROS2 node to the Raspberry Pi, which in turn processes this information using SLAM and Nav2 to build a map and plan a path. Based on this processing, the Pi creates velocity commands that are sent to the Arduino. The Arduino itself acts as a low-level controller, interpreting the commands to move the wheels via the motor driver while also reading feedback from the encoders and sensors. The wheel encoders determines the wheel speed and the IR sensors detect close-range obstacles. These data are sent back to the Pi, updating the odometry and refining the navigation decisions.

## RViz
To visualize the robot for testing, RViz is used in conjunction with a URDF model to see what the rover "sees" and "thinks" in real time. URDF represents the physical structure of the robot, including links and joints. By combining the model with data from the other components, RViz is able to create a dynamic visualization of the robot's environment, location within a map, and paths generated by Nav2. 

### URDF Model
{% include image-gallery.html images="urdf.png" %}  

[Repo link](https://github.com/chaoqy)
